backend_server/README.md, before:

# Content Annotation System

This is the source for the backend Flask server, responsible for the following:

- Tracking and uniquely identifying users
- Ingesting source audio
- Building tasks over the ingested database
- Serving tasks on request
- Validating annotation submissions
- Returning user statistics on request


## Annotation State Diagram
![Annotation State Diagram](https://github.com/cosmir/open-mic/raw/master/docs/img/annotation_state_diagram.png "Annotation State Diagram")


## Dependencies

First, install the [App Engine Python SDK](https://developers.google.com/appengine/downloads).

Next, install dependencies in a directory local to this project, e.g. `lib`. App Engine will only be able to import libraries uploaded with the project.

```
$ pip install -r requirements/setup/requirements_dev.txt -t lib
```


## Testing

Having taken care of dependencies, you should be able to run the test suite:

```
$ py.test -v .
```

All tests should pass; halt everything if this is not the case. In all likelihood, failure is the result of a broken / missing dependency, but please create a new issue (with a console log and steps to reproduce) if you believe otherwise.


## Using the CAS machinery

### Running Locally

First, follow the directions to install the [App Engine SDK](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/downloads#Google_App_Engine_SDK_for_Python)

Then, once that's all set, you should be able to do the following from
repository root:

```
$ dev_appserver.py .
```

At this point, the endpoints should be live via localhost (default deployment is to port 8080):

```
$ curl -X GET localhost:8080/annotation/taxonomy
$ curl -F "audio=@some_file.mp3" localhost:8080/audio/upload
```

### Deploying to App Engine

`TODO(ejhumphrey):` Is it possible to have pre-deployment testing hooks? If so, that should be documented here. **Update:** Survey says [yes](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/continuous-deployment-demo/blob/master/.travis.yml).

For the time being, you will need to create your own App Engine project. To do
so, [follow the directions here](https://console.cloud.google.com/freetrial?redirectPath=/start/appengine).

Once this is configured, make note of your `PROJECT_ID`, because you're going
to need it.

```
$ cd backend_server
$ pip install . -t lib
$ appcfg.py -A <PROJECT_ID> -V v1 update .
```

From here, the app should be deployed to the following URL:

```
  http://<PROJECT_ID>.appspot.com
```

You can then poke the endpoints as one would expect:

```
  $ curl -X GET http://<PROJECT_ID>.appspot.com/annotation/taxonomy
  $ curl -F "audio=@some_file.mp3" http://<PROJECT_ID>/audio/upload
```


## Shutting Down App Engine

After deploying the application, you may wish to shut it down so as to not ring up unnecessary charges / usage. Proceed to the following URL and click all the things that say "Shutdown" for maximum certainty:

```
  https://console.cloud.google.com/appengine/instances?project=<PROJECT_ID>
```

Be sure to replace `<PROJECT_ID>` with the appropriate one matching the account you've configured.

Commit message:

Added deployment script, updated readme.

backend_server/README.md, after:

# Content Annotation System

This is the source for the backend Flask server, responsible for the following:

- Tracking and uniquely identifying users
- Ingesting source audio
- Building tasks over the ingested database
- Serving tasks on request
- Validating annotation submissions
- Returning user statistics on request


## Annotation State Diagram
![Annotation State Diagram](https://github.com/cosmir/open-mic/raw/master/docs/img/annotation_state_diagram.png "Annotation State Diagram")


## Dependencies

First, install the [App Engine Python SDK](https://developers.google.com/appengine/downloads).

Next, install dependencies in a directory local to this project, e.g. `lib`. App Engine will only be able to import libraries uploaded with the project.

```
$ pip install -r requirements/setup/requirements_dev.txt -t lib
```

## Testing

Having taken care of dependencies, you should be able to run the test suite:

```
$ py.test -v .
```

All tests should pass; halt everything if this is not the case. In all likelihood, failure is the result of a broken / missing dependency, but please create a new issue (with a console log and steps to reproduce) if you believe otherwise.

**Note**: The underlying `google-cloud` library doesn't have the best testing interfaces at the moment; this library is under active development, and hopefully we'll be able to stub out this testing soon. In the meantime, testing is achieved by pinging a live GCP project. To do this, pass a test project flag at the command line:

```
$ TEST_GCP_PROJECT=<YOUR_PROJECT_ID> py.test -v --cov=pybackend tests
```

All affected tests are skipped in the absence of this environment variable.

## Using the CAS machinery

### Running Locally

First, follow the directions to install the [App Engine SDK](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/downloads#Google_App_Engine_SDK_for_Python)

Then, once that's all set, you should be able to do the following from
repository root:

```
$ dev_appserver.py .
```

At this point, the endpoints should be live via localhost (default deployment is to port 8080):

```
$ curl -X GET localhost:8080/annotation/taxonomy
$ curl -F "audio=@some_file.mp3" localhost:8080/audio/upload
```

### Deploying to App Engine

For the time being, you will need to create your own App Engine project. To do
so, [follow the directions here](https://console.cloud.google.com/freetrial?redirectPath=/start/appengine).

Once this is configured, make note of your `PROJECT_ID`, because you're going
to need to pass it through to the deployment script.

```
$ ./deploy.sh <PROJECT_ID>
```

From here, the app should be deployed to the following URL:

```
  http://<PROJECT_ID>.appspot.com
```

You can then poke the endpoints as one would expect:

```
  $ curl -X GET http://<PROJECT_ID>.appspot.com/annotation/taxonomy
  $ curl -F "audio=@some_file.mp3" http://<PROJECT_ID>/audio
```


## Shutting Down App Engine

After deploying the application, you may wish to shut it down so as to not ring up unnecessary charges / usage. Proceed to the following URL and click all the things that say "Shutdown" for maximum certainty:

```
  https://console.cloud.google.com/appengine/instances?project=<PROJECT_ID>
```

Be sure to replace `<PROJECT_ID>` with the appropriate one matching the account you've configured.
